Each game consists of a number of different "entities" (as described in the "entities.dot" file).
There are a number of different types of entity, including:
- Locations: Rooms or places within the game
- Artefacts: Physical "things" within the game
(that can be collected by the player)
- Furniture: Physical "things" that are an integral part of a location
(they can NOT be collected by the player)
- Characters: Creatures or people involved in game
- Players: A special kind of character that represents the user !

All entities need at least a name and a description, some may need additional attributes as well.
It is worth mentioning that any entity names defined in the configuration files will be unique.
You won't have to deal with two things called "door" (Although your might see a "blue-potion" and a "red-potion").
As such, you can safely use entity names as unique identifiers.

It is worth noting that "Locations" are complex constructs and as such
have various different attributes in their own right, including:
- Paths to other Locations
(note: it is possible for paths to be one-way !)
- Characters that are currently at a Location
- Artefacts that are currently present in a Location
- Furniture that belongs in a Location

Take a look at the video at the top of this section for a walkthrough of an example entity file.
This should hopefully provide you with a clearer idea of the nature and use of such entities files.

We have provided a couple of example entity files for you to use in your project.
Firstly there is a <a href="resources/data/basic-entities.dot" target="_blank">basic entities file</a>
to help get you started in constructing your game engine.
We have also provided an <a href="resources/data/extended-entities.dot" target="_blank">extended entities file</a> that can be used to for more extensive testing during the later stages of your work.

Note that every game has a "special" location that is the starting point for an adventure.
This starting point is always the first location that is encountered when reading in the "entities" file.

There is another special location called "unplaced" that can be found in the entities file.
This location does not appear in the game world, but is rather a container for all of the entities
that have no initial location. They need to exist somewhere in the game structure so that they can be defined,
but they do not enter the game until an action places then in another location within the game.

The big benefit of using DOT files to store game entities is that that are numerous existing tools
for visualising them - we can SEE the structure of the game configuration.
The image below visually shows the structure of the basic entities file.
As you can see, each location is represented by a box containing a number of different entities
(each type of entity being represented by a different shape). The paths between locations are also
presented as directed arrows.